.TH PLANK 1 "April 2026" "plank 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
plank \- sync local plan documents to Notion with versioned history
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plank
[\fIglobal-options\fR] \fIcommand\fR [\fIcommand-options\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B plank
is a CLI and MCP companion for keeping project plan documents in sync with a
Notion database. Each push creates a new version row instead of mutating
history in place.
.PP
Plank keeps project-specific tracking in
.I .planrc
at the project root and machine-specific secrets in
.I ~/.plank/config.json\fR.
.PP
Tracked document content is stored in the Notion page body as chunked Markdown
code blocks. Metadata such as project, file, version, checksum, and message is
stored in database properties.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B plank config
Run interactive global setup for
.I ~/.plank/config.json\fR.
Prompts for the Notion API token and default database ID.
.TP
.B plank config set \fIkey value\fR
Set one global configuration key non-interactively.
Valid keys are
.BR notion_token " and " default_database_id .
.TP
.B plank config show
Print the current global configuration with the token masked.
.TP
.B plank init
Create a new
.I .planrc
in the current directory.
Prompts for the project code name, optional description, and optional database
override.
.TP
.B plank clone \fIproject\fR
Bootstrap the current directory from Notion by reconstructing
.I .planrc
and pulling the latest version of every tracked file for the given project.
.TP
.B plank track \fIfile\fR
Add a file to
.I .planrc
tracking and prompt for its display title.
This command does not push content.
.TP
.B plank push [\fIfile\fR]
Push all tracked files, or only the named file, to Notion.
If a single file is not already tracked, Plank prompts for a title and adds it
to
.I .planrc
before continuing.
.TP
.B plank pull [\fIfile\fR]
Pull the latest version of all tracked files, or only the named file, from
Notion to disk.
.TP
.B plank status
Compare local tracked files with the latest remote checksum and report whether
each file is up to date, local-only, remote-only, or modified.
.TP
.B plank log [\fIfile\fR]
Show version history for all tracked files, or one specific tracked file.
.TP
.B plank serve
Start the MCP server over standard I/O for editor or agent integrations.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -V, --version
Print the installed Plank version.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show help for the main command or a subcommand.
.SH COMMAND OPTIONS
.TP
.B plank clone --db \fIdatabase_id\fR
Override the global default Notion database ID for the clone operation.
.TP
.B plank push -m, --message \fImsg\fR
Attach an optional message to the new pushed version.
.TP
.B plank log -n, --limit \fIn\fR
Limit the number of versions shown per file.
Defaults to 10.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .planrc
Project configuration committed with the repository or project root.
.TP
.I ~/.plank/config.json
Machine-level configuration containing the Notion token and default database ID.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Initial setup:
.RS
.nf
plank config
plank init
plank track ARCHON.md
plank push -m "initial import"
.fi
.RE
.TP
Push a single file and add it to tracking if needed:
.RS
.nf
plank push PLAN.md -m "refresh milestones"
.fi
.RE
.TP
Bootstrap a new machine inside an existing project folder:
.RS
.nf
plank config
plank clone archon
.fi
.RE
.TP
Use the MCP server mode:
.RS
.nf
plank serve
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
Plank exits with status 0 on success.
Command failures, configuration errors, invalid arguments, and upstream API
errors cause a non-zero exit status.
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
Plank identifies documents by
.B file
for commands and uses
.B title
as the human-readable display label.
.IP \(bu 2
Pushes are deduplicated by checksum. Unchanged content is skipped instead of
creating a new version row.
.IP \(bu 2
Every successful push creates a new version row in Notion. Existing rows are
not edited in place.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
Project documentation in
.I INIT_PLAN.md
and contributor workflow in
.I CONTRIBUTING.md\fR.
